comments.md, before:

1
--
We put this file, `Module.php`, in the root of the **module** directory (`module/Album`).   
  We put it here because this is where we want `ModuleManager` in Zend Framework 2 to detect it, and where it will look for it.  
  `ModuleManager` expects to find a class called `Album\Module` within it.   
  It will load and configure a module.  
  That is, the classes within a given module will have the namespace of the module’s name, which is the directory name of the module.  
2
--
 `getAutoloaderConfig()` (as well as `getConfig()`) will automatically be called by Zend's `ModuleManager`.  

3 
--
`getConfig()` (as well as `getAutoloaderConfig()`) will automatically be called by Zend's `ModuleManager`.  
This method simply **loads** the `config/module.config.php` file.

4
--
returns an array.   
The array is compatible with ZF2’s `AutoloaderFactory`. 
  We configure it so that we do the following:  
   1) add a **class map file** (`autoload_classmap.php`) to the `ClassMapAutoloader` and also   
  2) add this module’s namespace to the `StandardAutoloader`. 
  The **standard autoloader** requires a **namespace** and the path where to find the files for that namespace. It is **PSR-0** compliant and so **classes** map directly to **files** as per the PSR-0 rules.  

5
--
 we provide an empty array for the **classmap autoloader** because we are in development, and we don’t need to load files via the classmap 
 
6
--
 As this is an empty array, whenever the **autoloader** looks for a class within the `Album` namespace, it will fall back to the to `StandardAutoloader` for us.

7
--
The `ServiceManager` passes the **config** information  to the relevant components.   
We need **two** initial sections: **`controllers`** and **`view_manager`**.   

- The `controllers` section provides a list of all the controllers provided by the module. We will need **one** controller, `AlbumController`, which we’ll reference as `Album\Controller\Album`. The controller **key** must be unique across all modules, so we prefix it with our module name.

- Within the `view_manager` section, we add our `view` directory to the **`TemplatePathStack`** configuration.   
This will allow it to find the **view scripts** for the `Album` module that are stored in our `view/ directory`.

8
--
We add the module name to the list of modules, to inform the `ModuleManager` that this new `Album` module exists.  
This allows the module to be loaded by ZF2s `ModuleManager`.


9
--
`segment` is the route's **type**

10
--
`album` is the route's **name**.  
The route ``/album[/:action][/:id]`` will match any URL that starts with `/album`.  
`[/:action][/:id]` are the placeholders in the URL pattern. They will be mapped to named parameters in the matched route.  
The **square brackets** indicate that a segment is **optional**.  

- `[/:action]` segment will be mapped to the optional **action** name.  
- `[/:id]` segment will be mapped to the optional **id**.  

This route allows us to have the following URLs:

    URL           Page                              Action
	------------------------------------------------------
    /album           Home (list of albums)	        index
    /album/add	     Add new album	                add  
    /album/edit/2	 Edit album with an id of 2	    edit  
    /album/delete/4	 Delete album with an id of 4	delete  


11
--
The `constraints` section.   
It allows us to ensure that the characters within a segment are **as expected**, so we have limited actions to starting with a letter and then subsequent characters only being alphanumeric, underscore or hyphen. We also limit the `id` to a **number**.

12
--
to inform the `Album` module about the `Album` controller 

13
--
Our `Album` entity object is a simple PHP class.

14
--
The default **hydrator** object (`Zend\Stdlib\Hydrator\ArraySerializable`) expects to find two methods in the model: `getArrayCopy()` and `exchangeArray()`.    
 
The `exchangeArray()` method:  

-  it is used in order to work with Zend\Db’s `TableGateway` class.   
- This method simply copies the data from the passed in array to our entity’s properties. We will add an input filter for use with our form later.


15
--
protected property `$tableGateway`

16
--
we set the protected property `$tableGateway` to the `TableGateway` instance passed in the constructor. We will use this to perform operations on the database table for our albums.

17
--
helper methods that our application will use to **interface** with the `TableGateway`.

18
--
retrieves all albums rows from the database as a `ResultSet`

19
--
retrieves a single row as an `Album` object

20
--
either creates a new row in the database or updates a row that already exists

21
--
removes the row completely

22
--
`getServiceConfig()`:  
- it is automatically called by the `ModuleManager` and applied to the `ServiceManager`   
- it provides a **factory** (**closure** or **callback**).  
- if the `ServiceManager`	 needs an `AlbumTable` object the factory instantiates/creates it.  
- the `ServiceManager` defines how to create a `AlbumTable` object because we need to always use the same instance of our `AlbumTable`.  
-  If the `AlbumController` needs an `AlbumTable` object, it can be retrieved.

23
--
`getServiceConfig()`:   
- returns an array of factories  

`ModuleManager` does the following:  
- first it merges all the factories together  
- and then passes them to the `ServiceManager`.  

24
--
The factory for `Album\Model\AlbumTable`:  
- Use the `ServiceManager` (`$sm`) to create an `AlbumTableGateway` object

25
--
Pass the `AlbumTableGateway` object to the `AlbumTable` object.  

26
--
Also tell the `ServiceManager` (`$sm`) that an `AlbumTableGateway` object is created:  
- by getting a `Zend\Db\Adapter\Adapter` (also from the `ServiceManager`)   

27
--
- and using it to create a `TableGateway` object.    
  
The `TableGateway` classes use the **prototype pattern** for creation of result sets and entities.   
This means that instead of instantiating when required, the system clones a previously instantiated object. See PHP Constructor Best Practices and the Prototype Pattern for more details.

28
--
configuring the `ServiceManager` so that it knows how to get a `Zend\Db\Adapter\Adapter`.

29
--
this factory, `Zend\Db\Adapter\AdapterServiceFactory`, will tell the `ServiceManager` how to get a `Zend\Db\Adapter\Adapter`.

30
--
The database credentials: username and password

31
--
`getAlbumTable()`:  
- is called from within the controller when there's a need to interact with the model.  
- to retrieve an `AlbumTable` created by the `ServiceManager`.

32
--
In order to list the albums, we need to **retrieve** them from the `Album` model and pass them to the view.  
The **return value** is a `ViewModel` object.  

33
--
`headTitle()` is a view helper:  
- to set the **page title** and the title for the `<head>` section.

34
--
`url(A,B)` is a view helper:  
- to create the links we need.  
The parameters:  
- `A`: the route name we wish to use (*here* `'album'`) for construction of the URL  
- `B`: an array of all the variables to fit into the placeholders to use.  
- we use our `'album'` route which is set up to accept two placeholder variables: `'action'` and `'id'`.  


35
--
to display album's **title**

36
--
to display album's **artist(s)**

37
--
A link to **edit** a row

38
--
a link to **delete** a row

39
--
A standard `foreach:` loop   
its alternate form using a colon (`:`) and `endforeach;`   
- it is easier to scan than to try and match up braces.

40
--
`escapeHtml()` is a view helper   
- to help protect ourselves from Cross Site Scripting (XSS) vulnerabilities

41
--
The `Zend\Form` component manages the form and form validation.

42
--
as we call the parent’s constructor, we set the **name** of the form.

43
--
Create 4 form elements: the **id**, **title**, **artist**, and **submit** button. For each item we set various attributes and options, including the label to be displayed.  
`'name'` - the name of the form's input element  
`'type'` - the type of the input element  
`'label'` - the visible label on the button

44
--
input filter
add it to the `Album` class
We also need to set up validation for this form. In Zend Framework 2 this is done using an input filter, which can either be standalone or defined within any class that implements

45
--
One of the 2 methods defined by `InputFilterAwareInterface `

46
--
One of the 2 methods defined by `InputFilterAwareInterface `

47
--
We simply throw an exception in `setInputFilter()` because we only need to implement `getInputFilter()`.

48
--
Instantiate `InputFilter`

49
--
add/accumulate/collect/fill up the inputs that we require.  
keep adding one by one into the `inputFilter` bag.  
We add one input for each property that we wish to filter or validate.  


50
--
For the **id** field:  
we only need integers in this field, so we add an `Int` filter for it.

51
--
This is a text field  
add 2 **filters** (`StripTags` and `StringTrim`) to remove   


- unwanted HTML and 
- unnecessary white space


52
--
to report error when the field is left empty

53
--
`StringLength` validator   
- ensures that the user doesn’t enter more characters than we can store into the database.

54
--
Filter: `StripTags`  
	
- to remove unwanted HTML
 
55
--
Filter: `StringTrim`   

- to remove unnecessary white space

56
--
We instantiate `AlbumForm`

57
--
set the submit button's label to string “Add”.  
We do this here as we’ll want to re-use the form when editing an album and will use a different label.

58
--
if the form has been submitted

59
--
set the form’s input filter from an **album** instance.

60
--
set the posted data to the form

61
--
if the `POST`ed data is **valid** 

62
--
grab the data from the form

63
--
store to the model using `saveAlbum()`.

64
--
redirect back to the list of albums  

- using the Redirect controller plugin
- after we have saved the new `album` row

65
--
Finally, we return the variables that we want assigned to the view. In this case, just the form object.  
Note that Zend Framework 2 also allows you to simply return an array containing the variables to be assigned to the view and it will create a `ViewModel` behind the scenes for you. This saves a little typing.

66
--

`form()`:  a view helper

67
--
`openTag()`: opens the form

68
--
`closeTag()`: closes the form.

69
--
`formRow()`: for each element with a label

70
--
`formHidden()`: for the elements that are standalone

71
--
`formSubmit()`: for standalone elements

72
--
An alternative (simpler) way to render the form.  
It uses the **bundled** view helper `formCollection`.   
This will iterate over the form structure, calling the appropriate label, element and error view helpers for each element.  
However, you still have to wrap `formCollection($form)` with `openTag()` and `closeTag()`. This helps reduce the complexity of your view script in situations where the default HTML rendering of the form is acceptable.

73
--
Look for the `id` that is in the matched route.  
`params`: a controller plugin.  

- It provides a convenient way to retrieve parameters from the matched route.   
- It is used to retrieve the `id` from the route we created in the modules’ `module.config.php`.   


74
--
- If the `id` retrieved from the route is zero, then we redirect to the **add** action   


75
--
Use the `id` to load the album to be edited.  

- If the `id` retrieved from the route is **not** zero, we continue by getting the album entity from the database.

76
--
If the Album with the specified `id` **cannot** be found, then the data access method throws an exception. We catch that exception and re-route the user to the **index** page.

77
--
The form’s `bind()` method:  
it attaches the model to the form.   
This is used in two ways:

- When displaying the form, the initial values for each element are extracted from the model.  
- After successful validation in `isValid()`, the data from the form is put back into the model.

78
--
As a result of using `bind()` with its hydrator, we do not need to populate the form’s data back into the `$album` as that’s already been done, so we can just call the mappers’ `saveAlbum()` to store the changes back to the database.

79
--
Set the title of the page

80
--
set the form’s action to the **edit** action

81
--
check `isPost()` on the **request** object to determine   

- whether to show the confirmation page 
- or to delete the album.

82
--
use the `AlbumTable` object to delete the row using the `deleteAlbum()` method and then redirect back the list of albums. 

83
--
redirect back the list of albums.   

84
--
If the request is not a `POST`

85
--
then retrieve the correct database record and assign to the view, along with the `id`.

86
--
Ensuring that the home page displays the list of albums

87
--

88
--
`ViewModel` is used to set variables in the view.  
`ViewModel`'s constructor's first parameter is an array from the action containing data we need. These data are then automatically passed to the view script.  
The `ViewModel` object also allows us to change the view script that is used, but the default is to use `{controller name}/{action name}`. 

89
--
The **Submit** button will have `value` of **Edit**.

90
--
`inputFilter` is like a a bag.  
to put inputs (data from the form's input elements)  

91
--
`TableGateway` is like Habib's `DBHelper`

92
--
if the album's **id** is not zero

93
--
if `getAlbum()` returns `TRUE`, after we pass the album's `id` to `getAlbum()`

94
--
if `getAlbum()` returns `FALSE`, after we pass the album's `id` to `getAlbum()`

95
--
**Method purpose**: to return router configuration  

to add a route to our application so that our module can be accessed through the following URL:  

- `localhost:8080/blog` 

**Method return value**: either an array or a `Traversable` object.   
(This function is defined in the `ConfigProviderInterface` although actually implementing this interface in the module class is optional.) 

96
--
Directly returning an array is worse than returning a file.

97
--
A **configuration file** for `Blog\Module::getConfig()`.  

98
--
Configuration files can become quite big though and keeping everything inside the `getConfig()` function won’t be optimal. To help keep our project organized we’re going to put our array configuration in a separate file at this path. 

99
--
These lines open the configuration for the `RouteManager`

100
--
Open configuration for all possible routes

101
--
Define a new route.  
`'post'` - the new route's name 

102
--
Define the new route's type
`'type'` - the new route's type's name.   

- Here it is `"Zend\Mvc\Router\Http\Literal"`, which is basically just a **string**

103
--
Configuring the route

104
--
`route` - the URI.  
Here we listen to `'/blog'`.

105
--
When the route `'/blog'` is matched,

- the default **controller** is `'Blog\Controller\List'`
- the default **action** to be called is `'index'` 

106
--
to define `Blog\Controller\List`   
as an **alias** for the `'Blog\Controller\ListController'`  
(i.e. `ListController` under the **namespace** `Blog\Controller`). 

107
--
- to configure **autoloading** for the Blog module.  
- to provide  configuration for the `Zend\Loader\StandardAutoloader`.   
- to tell the app **where** to find the class it needs to load.   
- to tell the app that classes in `__NAMESPACE__ (Blog)` can be found inside `__DIR__ . '/src/' . __NAMESPACE__ (/module/Blog/src/Blog)`.  

**Autoloading** - a process to allow PHP to automatically load classes on demand.

(This function is defined in the `AutoloaderProviderInterface`, although the presence of the function is enough, actually implementing the interface is optional.)

108
--
The `Zend\Loader\StandardAutoloader` 

- it uses a PHP community driven standard called **PSR-0** <https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-0.md>`_.   
- Amongst other things, the **PSR-0** standard defines a way for PHP to map class names to the file system.   
- So with this configured, the application knows that our `Blog\Controller\ListController` class should exist at `/module/Blog/src/Blog/Controller/ListController.php`.

109
--

We use `AbstractActionController` because ZendFramework uses it to provide some base controller implementation of  `ZendStdlibDispatchableInterface`.

The **ListController** must implement `ZendStdlibDispatchableInterface` to be able to be **‘dispatched’** (or run) by ZendFramework’s **MVC layer**.   
If the **ListController**  does not implement the `ZendStdlibDispatchableInterface` we will get the following error:  

- **The requested controller was not dispatchable.**


110
--
**Q:** Why are **view files** in the `/view` subdirectory, not in `/src`?  
**A:** Because view files are not PHP class files, but template files for rendering HTML.

111
--
let the application know where to look for view files  
With this you can not only ship view files for your module but you can also overwrite view files from other modules.

112
--
We define a `PostServiceInterface`.  
It will be used to create a `PostService`.   
Interfaces are a good way to ensure that other programmers can easily build extensions for our Services using their own implementations. In other words, they can write Services that have the same function names but internally do completely different things but have the same specified result.  
The task of our **PostService** is to provide us with data of our blog posts. For now we are going to focus on the read-only side of things. We will define a function that will give us all posts and we will define a function that will give us a single post.

113
--
`findAllPosts()` to return all posts 

114
--
`findPost($id)` to return the post matching the given identifier `$id`

115
--
The `PostService` will return Models

116
--
 This Model file (Post.php) is associated with the interface (PostInterface.php).

117
--
some hard-coded content to directly return from our `PostService` class.  
`$data`- a property which is an array of our Model type (Post). 

118
--
Get all the posts and put them each in a separate offset in the `$allPosts` array.

Commit message:

bug15 - Bringing the Service into the Controller

comments.md, after:

1
--
We put this file, `Module.php`, in the root of the **module** directory (`module/Album`).   
  We put it here because this is where we want `ModuleManager` in Zend Framework 2 to detect it, and where it will look for it.  
  `ModuleManager` expects to find a class called `Album\Module` within it.   
  It will load and configure a module.  
  That is, the classes within a given module will have the namespace of the module’s name, which is the directory name of the module.  
2
--
 `getAutoloaderConfig()` (as well as `getConfig()`) will automatically be called by Zend's `ModuleManager`.  

3 
--
`getConfig()` (as well as `getAutoloaderConfig()`) will automatically be called by Zend's `ModuleManager`.  
This method simply **loads** the `config/module.config.php` file.

4
--
returns an array.   
The array is compatible with ZF2’s `AutoloaderFactory`. 
  We configure it so that we do the following:  
   1) add a **class map file** (`autoload_classmap.php`) to the `ClassMapAutoloader` and also   
  2) add this module’s namespace to the `StandardAutoloader`. 
  The **standard autoloader** requires a **namespace** and the path where to find the files for that namespace. It is **PSR-0** compliant and so **classes** map directly to **files** as per the PSR-0 rules.  

5
--
 we provide an empty array for the **classmap autoloader** because we are in development, and we don’t need to load files via the classmap 
 
6
--
 As this is an empty array, whenever the **autoloader** looks for a class within the `Album` namespace, it will fall back to the to `StandardAutoloader` for us.

7
--
The `ServiceManager` passes the **config** information  to the relevant components.   
We need **two** initial sections: **`controllers`** and **`view_manager`**.   

- The `controllers` section provides a list of all the controllers provided by the module. We will need **one** controller, `AlbumController`, which we’ll reference as `Album\Controller\Album`. The controller **key** must be unique across all modules, so we prefix it with our module name.

- Within the `view_manager` section, we add our `view` directory to the **`TemplatePathStack`** configuration.   
This will allow it to find the **view scripts** for the `Album` module that are stored in our `view/ directory`.

8
--
We add the module name to the list of modules, to inform the `ModuleManager` that this new `Album` module exists.  
This allows the module to be loaded by ZF2s `ModuleManager`.


9
--
`segment` is the route's **type**

10
--
`album` is the route's **name**.  
The route ``/album[/:action][/:id]`` will match any URL that starts with `/album`.  
`[/:action][/:id]` are the placeholders in the URL pattern. They will be mapped to named parameters in the matched route.  
The **square brackets** indicate that a segment is **optional**.  

- `[/:action]` segment will be mapped to the optional **action** name.  
- `[/:id]` segment will be mapped to the optional **id**.  

This route allows us to have the following URLs:

    URL           Page                              Action
	------------------------------------------------------
    /album           Home (list of albums)	        index
    /album/add	     Add new album	                add  
    /album/edit/2	 Edit album with an id of 2	    edit  
    /album/delete/4	 Delete album with an id of 4	delete  


11
--
The `constraints` section.   
It allows us to ensure that the characters within a segment are **as expected**, so we have limited actions to starting with a letter and then subsequent characters only being alphanumeric, underscore or hyphen. We also limit the `id` to a **number**.

12
--
to inform the `Album` module about the `Album` controller 

13
--
Our `Album` entity object is a simple PHP class.

14
--
The default **hydrator** object (`Zend\Stdlib\Hydrator\ArraySerializable`) expects to find two methods in the model: `getArrayCopy()` and `exchangeArray()`.    
 
The `exchangeArray()` method:  

-  it is used in order to work with Zend\Db’s `TableGateway` class.   
- This method simply copies the data from the passed in array to our entity’s properties. We will add an input filter for use with our form later.


15
--
protected property `$tableGateway`

16
--
we set the protected property `$tableGateway` to the `TableGateway` instance passed in the constructor. We will use this to perform operations on the database table for our albums.

17
--
helper methods that our application will use to **interface** with the `TableGateway`.

18
--
retrieves all albums rows from the database as a `ResultSet`

19
--
retrieves a single row as an `Album` object

20
--
either creates a new row in the database or updates a row that already exists

21
--
removes the row completely

22
--
`getServiceConfig()`:  
- it is automatically called by the `ModuleManager` and applied to the `ServiceManager`   
- it provides a **factory** (**closure** or **callback**).  
- if the `ServiceManager`	 needs an `AlbumTable` object the factory instantiates/creates it.  
- the `ServiceManager` defines how to create a `AlbumTable` object because we need to always use the same instance of our `AlbumTable`.  
-  If the `AlbumController` needs an `AlbumTable` object, it can be retrieved.

23
--
`getServiceConfig()`:   
- returns an array of factories  

`ModuleManager` does the following:  
- first it merges all the factories together  
- and then passes them to the `ServiceManager`.  

24
--
The factory for `Album\Model\AlbumTable`:  
- Use the `ServiceManager` (`$sm`) to create an `AlbumTableGateway` object

25
--
Pass the `AlbumTableGateway` object to the `AlbumTable` object.  

26
--
Also tell the `ServiceManager` (`$sm`) that an `AlbumTableGateway` object is created:  
- by getting a `Zend\Db\Adapter\Adapter` (also from the `ServiceManager`)   

27
--
- and using it to create a `TableGateway` object.    
  
The `TableGateway` classes use the **prototype pattern** for creation of result sets and entities.   
This means that instead of instantiating when required, the system clones a previously instantiated object. See PHP Constructor Best Practices and the Prototype Pattern for more details.

28
--
configuring the `ServiceManager` so that it knows how to get a `Zend\Db\Adapter\Adapter`.

29
--
this factory, `Zend\Db\Adapter\AdapterServiceFactory`, will tell the `ServiceManager` how to get a `Zend\Db\Adapter\Adapter`.

30
--
The database credentials: username and password

31
--
`getAlbumTable()`:  
- is called from within the controller when there's a need to interact with the model.  
- to retrieve an `AlbumTable` created by the `ServiceManager`.

32
--
In order to list the albums, we need to **retrieve** them from the `Album` model and pass them to the view.  
The **return value** is a `ViewModel` object.  

33
--
`headTitle()` is a view helper:  
- to set the **page title** and the title for the `<head>` section.

34
--
`url(A,B)` is a view helper:  
- to create the links we need.  
The parameters:  
- `A`: the route name we wish to use (*here* `'album'`) for construction of the URL  
- `B`: an array of all the variables to fit into the placeholders to use.  
- we use our `'album'` route which is set up to accept two placeholder variables: `'action'` and `'id'`.  


35
--
to display album's **title**

36
--
to display album's **artist(s)**

37
--
A link to **edit** a row

38
--
a link to **delete** a row

39
--
A standard `foreach:` loop   
its alternate form using a colon (`:`) and `endforeach;`   
- it is easier to scan than to try and match up braces.

40
--
`escapeHtml()` is a view helper   
- to help protect ourselves from Cross Site Scripting (XSS) vulnerabilities

41
--
The `Zend\Form` component manages the form and form validation.

42
--
as we call the parent’s constructor, we set the **name** of the form.

43
--
Create 4 form elements: the **id**, **title**, **artist**, and **submit** button. For each item we set various attributes and options, including the label to be displayed.  
`'name'` - the name of the form's input element  
`'type'` - the type of the input element  
`'label'` - the visible label on the button

44
--
input filter
add it to the `Album` class
We also need to set up validation for this form. In Zend Framework 2 this is done using an input filter, which can either be standalone or defined within any class that implements

45
--
One of the 2 methods defined by `InputFilterAwareInterface `

46
--
One of the 2 methods defined by `InputFilterAwareInterface `

47
--
We simply throw an exception in `setInputFilter()` because we only need to implement `getInputFilter()`.

48
--
Instantiate `InputFilter`

49
--
add/accumulate/collect/fill up the inputs that we require.  
keep adding one by one into the `inputFilter` bag.  
We add one input for each property that we wish to filter or validate.  


50
--
For the **id** field:  
we only need integers in this field, so we add an `Int` filter for it.

51
--
This is a text field  
add 2 **filters** (`StripTags` and `StringTrim`) to remove   


- unwanted HTML and 
- unnecessary white space


52
--
to report error when the field is left empty

53
--
`StringLength` validator   
- ensures that the user doesn’t enter more characters than we can store into the database.

54
--
Filter: `StripTags`  
	
- to remove unwanted HTML
 
55
--
Filter: `StringTrim`   

- to remove unnecessary white space

56
--
We instantiate `AlbumForm`

57
--
set the submit button's label to string “Add”.  
We do this here as we’ll want to re-use the form when editing an album and will use a different label.

58
--
if the form has been submitted

59
--
set the form’s input filter from an **album** instance.

60
--
set the posted data to the form

61
--
if the `POST`ed data is **valid** 

62
--
grab the data from the form

63
--
store to the model using `saveAlbum()`.

64
--
redirect back to the list of albums  

- using the Redirect controller plugin
- after we have saved the new `album` row

65
--
Finally, we return the variables that we want assigned to the view. In this case, just the form object.  
Note that Zend Framework 2 also allows you to simply return an array containing the variables to be assigned to the view and it will create a `ViewModel` behind the scenes for you. This saves a little typing.

66
--

`form()`:  a view helper

67
--
`openTag()`: opens the form

68
--
`closeTag()`: closes the form.

69
--
`formRow()`: for each element with a label

70
--
`formHidden()`: for the elements that are standalone

71
--
`formSubmit()`: for standalone elements

72
--
An alternative (simpler) way to render the form.  
It uses the **bundled** view helper `formCollection`.   
This will iterate over the form structure, calling the appropriate label, element and error view helpers for each element.  
However, you still have to wrap `formCollection($form)` with `openTag()` and `closeTag()`. This helps reduce the complexity of your view script in situations where the default HTML rendering of the form is acceptable.

73
--
Look for the `id` that is in the matched route.  
`params`: a controller plugin.  

- It provides a convenient way to retrieve parameters from the matched route.   
- It is used to retrieve the `id` from the route we created in the modules’ `module.config.php`.   


74
--
- If the `id` retrieved from the route is zero, then we redirect to the **add** action   


75
--
Use the `id` to load the album to be edited.  

- If the `id` retrieved from the route is **not** zero, we continue by getting the album entity from the database.

76
--
If the Album with the specified `id` **cannot** be found, then the data access method throws an exception. We catch that exception and re-route the user to the **index** page.

77
--
The form’s `bind()` method:  
it attaches the model to the form.   
This is used in two ways:

- When displaying the form, the initial values for each element are extracted from the model.  
- After successful validation in `isValid()`, the data from the form is put back into the model.

78
--
As a result of using `bind()` with its hydrator, we do not need to populate the form’s data back into the `$album` as that’s already been done, so we can just call the mappers’ `saveAlbum()` to store the changes back to the database.

79
--
Set the title of the page

80
--
set the form’s action to the **edit** action

81
--
check `isPost()` on the **request** object to determine   

- whether to show the confirmation page 
- or to delete the album.

82
--
use the `AlbumTable` object to delete the row using the `deleteAlbum()` method and then redirect back the list of albums. 

83
--
redirect back the list of albums.   

84
--
If the request is not a `POST`

85
--
then retrieve the correct database record and assign to the view, along with the `id`.

86
--
Ensuring that the home page displays the list of albums

87
--

88
--
`ViewModel` is used to set variables in the view.  
`ViewModel`'s constructor's first parameter is an array from the action containing data we need. These data are then automatically passed to the view script.  
The `ViewModel` object also allows us to change the view script that is used, but the default is to use `{controller name}/{action name}`. 

89
--
The **Submit** button will have `value` of **Edit**.

90
--
`inputFilter` is like a a bag.  
to put inputs (data from the form's input elements)  

91
--
`TableGateway` is like Habib's `DBHelper`

92
--
if the album's **id** is not zero

93
--
if `getAlbum()` returns `TRUE`, after we pass the album's `id` to `getAlbum()`

94
--
if `getAlbum()` returns `FALSE`, after we pass the album's `id` to `getAlbum()`

95
--
**Method purpose**: to return router configuration  

to add a route to our application so that our module can be accessed through the following URL:  

- `localhost:8080/blog` 

**Method return value**: either an array or a `Traversable` object.   
(This function is defined in the `ConfigProviderInterface` although actually implementing this interface in the module class is optional.) 

96
--
Directly returning an array is worse than returning a file.

97
--
A **configuration file** for `Blog\Module::getConfig()`.  

98
--
Configuration files can become quite big though and keeping everything inside the `getConfig()` function won’t be optimal. To help keep our project organized we’re going to put our array configuration in a separate file at this path. 

99
--
These lines open the configuration for the `RouteManager`

100
--
Open configuration for all possible routes

101
--
Define a new route.  
`'post'` - the new route's name 

102
--
Define the new route's type
`'type'` - the new route's type's name.   

- Here it is `"Zend\Mvc\Router\Http\Literal"`, which is basically just a **string**

103
--
Configuring the route

104
--
`route` - the URI.  
Here we listen to `'/blog'`.

105
--
When the route `'/blog'` is matched,

- the default **controller** is `'Blog\Controller\List'`
- the default **action** to be called is `'index'` 

106
--
to define `Blog\Controller\List`   
as an **alias** for the `'Blog\Controller\ListController'`  
(i.e. `ListController` under the **namespace** `Blog\Controller`). 

107
--
- to configure **autoloading** for the Blog module.  
- to provide  configuration for the `Zend\Loader\StandardAutoloader`.   
- to tell the app **where** to find the class it needs to load.   
- to tell the app that classes in `__NAMESPACE__ (Blog)` can be found inside `__DIR__ . '/src/' . __NAMESPACE__ (/module/Blog/src/Blog)`.  

**Autoloading** - a process to allow PHP to automatically load classes on demand.

(This function is defined in the `AutoloaderProviderInterface`, although the presence of the function is enough, actually implementing the interface is optional.)

108
--
The `Zend\Loader\StandardAutoloader` 

- it uses a PHP community driven standard called **PSR-0** <https://github.com/php-fig/fig-standards/blob/master/accepted/PSR-0.md>`_.   
- Amongst other things, the **PSR-0** standard defines a way for PHP to map class names to the file system.   
- So with this configured, the application knows that our `Blog\Controller\ListController` class should exist at `/module/Blog/src/Blog/Controller/ListController.php`.

109
--

We use `AbstractActionController` because ZendFramework uses it to provide some base controller implementation of  `ZendStdlibDispatchableInterface`.

The **ListController** must implement `ZendStdlibDispatchableInterface` to be able to be **‘dispatched’** (or run) by ZendFramework’s **MVC layer**.   
If the **ListController**  does not implement the `ZendStdlibDispatchableInterface` we will get the following error:  

- **The requested controller was not dispatchable.**


110
--
**Q:** Why are **view files** in the `/view` subdirectory, not in `/src`?  
**A:** Because view files are not PHP class files, but template files for rendering HTML.

111
--
let the application know where to look for view files  
With this you can not only ship view files for your module but you can also overwrite view files from other modules.

112
--
We define a `PostServiceInterface`.  
It will be used to create a `PostService`.   
Interfaces are a good way to ensure that other programmers can easily build extensions for our Services using their own implementations. In other words, they can write Services that have the same function names but internally do completely different things but have the same specified result.  
The task of our **PostService** is to provide us with data of our blog posts. For now we are going to focus on the read-only side of things. We will define a function that will give us all posts and we will define a function that will give us a single post.

113
--
`findAllPosts()` to return all posts 

114
--
`findPost($id)` to return the post matching the given identifier `$id`

115
--
The class `PostService` is a **'dependency'** of the class `ListController`.  
Why? Because, in order to function properly, the Blog-Module's `ListController` must somehow interact with our `PostService`.  
We have to make sure that our `ListController` will always get the appropriate dependency. We do it by defining the dependency inside the `ListController`'s constructor function `__construct()`.  
The `PostService` will return Models.

116
--
This Model file (Post.php) is associated with the interface (PostInterface.php).

117
--
some hard-coded content to directly return from our `PostService` class.  
`$data`- a property which is an array of our Model type (Post). 

118
--
Get all the posts and put them each in a separate offset in the `$allPosts` array.

119
--
The constructor has a required argument.  
You cannot call this class without passing it an instance of a class that matches our defined `PostServiceInterface`.  
`ListController` expects to be passed an implementation of the `PostServiceInterface`.

120
--
An `invokable` is a class that can be constructed without any arguments, i.e. a class whose constructor has **no arguments**.

121
--
A `factory` is a class that creates instances of another class.  
I.e. a class whose constructor has a required argument.

122
--
There must come a call to `Blog\Factory\ListControllerFactory` for this controller name.
